#summary sig.attackslope: Average slope of the attack phase

= sig.attackslope: Average slope of the attack phase =

Another description of the attack phase is related to its average slope. Values are expressed in the same scale than the original signal, but normalized by time in seconds.


== Flowchart Interconnections ==

`sig.attackslope` accepts as input data type either:
  * onset detection curves (resulting from `sig.onsets`),<p>
  * and all the input data accepted by `sig.onsets`. In this case `sig.onsets` is called with the `'Filter'` method.
<br>
`sig.onsets` is normalized using the `'Normal'` option set to `'AcrossSegments'`.
<br><br>

Some options in sig.onsets can be controlled:

  * `sig.attackslope(…,'Single')` toggles on the `'Single'` option in `sig.onsets`.<p>
  * `sig.attackslope(…,'LogOnset')` toggles on the `'Log'` option in `sig.onsets`.<p>
  * `sig.attackslope(…,'MinLog',`_ml_`)` controls the `'MinLog'` option in `sig.onsets`.
<br>
The peak picking from the onset detection is performed in any case. Its `'Contrast'` parameter can be specified. Its default value is the same as in `sig.onsets`.
<br><br>

`sig.attackslope` can return several outputs:
  * the attack slope itself and<p>
  * the onset detection curve returned by `sig.onsets`, including the detected onsets.
<br>

== Options ==

  * `sig.attackslope(x,`_meth_`)` specifies the method for slope estimation. Possible values for _meth_ are:<p>
   * _meth_ = `'Diff'` computes the slope as a ratio between the magnitude difference at the beginning and the ending of the attack period, and the corresponding time difference. (Default choice)<p>
   * _meth_ = `'Gauss'` computes the average of the slope, weighted by a gaussian curve that emphasizes values at the middle of the attack period (similar to Peeters, 2004).