#summary sig.inharmonicity: Partials non-multiple of fundamentals

= sig.inharmonicity: Partials non-multiple of fundamentals =

`sig.inharmonicity(`_x_`)` estimates the inharmonicity, i.e., the amount of partials that are not multiples of the fundamental frequency, as a value between 0 and 1. More precisely, the inharmonicity considered here takes into account the amount of energy outside the ideal harmonic series.

For that purpose, we use a simple function estimating the inharmonicity of each frequency given the fundamental frequency _f0_:

||*WARNING*: This simple model presupposes that there is only one fundamental frequency.||

<br>
== Flowchart Interconnections ==

mirinharmonicity accepts as main input either:
  * sig.spectrum objects,<p>
  * sig.input objects (same as for sig.spectrum),<p>
  * file name(s) or the 'Folder' keyword.
<br>

sig.inharmonicity can return several outputs:
  # the inharmonicity rate itself,<p>
  ## the `sig.spectrum data`, and<p>
  ## the fundamental frequency _'f0'_.

<br>
== Frame decomposition ==

`sig.inharmonicity(…,'Frame',…)` performs first a frame decomposition, with by default a frame length of 10 ms and a hop factor of 12,5% (1.25 ms). For the specification of other frame configuration using additional parameters, cf. the previous SigFrame vs. ‘Frame’ section. 

<br>
== Option ==

`sig.inharmonicity(…,'f0',`_f_`)` bases the computation of the inharmonicity on the fundamental frequency indicated by _f_. The frequency data can be either a number, or a sig.scalar object (for instance, the output of a `sig.pitch` computation).

By default, the fundamental frequency is computed using the command:

{{{
f=mirpitch(…,'Mono')
}}}