#summary Some examples of what you can try for the moment.
#labels Featured

Some examples of what you can try for the moment:

{{{
help miningsuite
}}}

{{{
a = sig.input('ragtime.wav','Extract',0,60,'s')
}}}
Loads file 'ragtime.wav' and extracts the first minute, and stores the result in variable a.
Note that if you add a semi-colon (';') at the end, the operation is not performed but the data flow is simply designed.

 {{{
b = sig.spectrum(a,'Power');
}}}
Computes the Power spectrum based on the FFT stored in the variable a defined in previous line.

 {{{
c = aud.brightness(b)
c.getdata
}}}
Computes the brightness related to the Power spectrum stored in variable b.

{{{
b = sig.spectrum(a,'Frame','Power');
}}}
Computes power spectrogram

 {{{
c = aud.brightness(b,'FrameSize',.5,'s','FrameHop',.1,'s')
}}}
Computes brightness frame by frame with frame specification.

{{{
ac = sig.autocor('ragtime.wav')
}}}
Computes autocorrelation function directly on the audio waveform.

{{{
e = sig.envelope('ragtime.wav')
}}}
Extract the energy envelope from the audio waveform.

{{{
ac = sig.autocor(e,'Max',5)
}}}
Computes autocorrelation function on the envelope curve.

{{{
sig.peaks(ac)
}}}
Detects peaks on the autocorrelation function.

{{{
ac = sig.autocor(e,'Max',5,'FrameSize',3,'FrameHop',.5)
sig.peaks(ac)
}}}

{{{
r = sig.rms('ragtime.wav')
r.getdata
}}}
Computes RMS energy.

{{{
sig.rms('ragtime.wav','Frame')
}}}

{{{
t = mus.tempo('ragtime.wav')
t.getdata
}}}
Estimates tempo.

{{{
t = mus.tempo('ragtime.wav','FrameSize',2)
}}}

{{{
mus.score('laksin.mid')
}}}
Loads and displays a MIDI file.

{{{
mus.tempo('laksin.mid')
}}}
Estimates tempo from a MIDI file, using the same audio-based method as for the audio file.

{{{
m = mus.score('laksin.mid','Notes',1:10)
}}}
Loads only the first ten notes of the MIDI file.

{{{
m = mus.score('laksin.mid','EndTime',5)
}}}
Loads only the first five seconds of the MIDI file.

{{{
mus.score(m,'Metre')
}}}
Constructs a beat structure on the MIDI file. *Unavailable currently*

{{{
mus.tempo('laksin.mid','Pattern')
}}}
Estimates tempo based on that beat structure approach. *Unavailable currently*

{{{
mus.score('laksin.mid','Mode')
}}}
Estimates mode on the MIDI file, and uses the information for pitch spelling.